Contact
andre.m.aponte@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/andreaponte
(LinkedIn)
Top Skills
AI Governance
Cybersecurity strategy
Governance, Risk Management, and
Compliance (GRC)
Languages
English
Certifications
Project Management Professional
Security Fundamentals Professional
Certification (SFPC)
ITILv3 Foundation
SQL Fundamentals
Honors-Awards
83 NOS, Det 4 SNCO of the Quarter
83 NOS SNCO of the Quarter
51 FW Information Assurance
Operator of the Year
Andre Aponte
Recovering CISO | AI Consultant | Veteran Advocate
Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States
Summary
As a seasoned professional with nearly three decades of experience
in Information Security, Privacy, and IT Program Management, I
have dedicated my career to securing organizations and advancing
AI governance and compliance. In my role as Chief Information
Security Officer (CISO) at Primer.ai, a leading AI/ML company
specializing in natural language processing (NLP) and utilizing
large language models (LLMs) for enterprises and governments,
I spearheaded initiatives to establish security programs that meet
US federal requirements and align AI systems with international
standards such as ISO/IEC 42001, the NIST AI Risk Management
Framework (AI RMF), and the EU AI Act.
My expertise encompasses developing and executing strategic
security roadmaps, mitigating cyber risks, and ensuring adherence
to industry standards and regulations such as SOC 2, ISO 27001,
NIST CSF, NIST 800-53, NIST 800-171, CMMC, FedRAMP/IL-5,
UK Cyber Essentials Plus, GDPR, and CCPA. I possess a deep
understanding of AI governance frameworks, including ISO/IEC
42001, which provides guidelines for establishing, implementing,
maintaining, and continually improving an AI management system
within organizations ￼. Additionally, I am well-versed in the NIST AI
RMF, a voluntary framework designed to help organizations manage
the risks associated with AI and promote trustworthy and responsible
development and use of AI systems ￼.
Holding certifications as a Certified Information Systems Security
Professional (CISSP) and Project Management Professional
(PMP), along with an MBA, I effectively align business and security
objectives, manage resources and budgets, and deliver results.
My passion lies at the intersection of cybersecurity and artificial
intelligence, where I focus on fostering trust, privacy, and safety
in AI applications. I am committed to mentoring and teaching the
next generation of security professionals and actively support the
Page 1 of 10
transition and career development of military service members andveterans in the tech industry.
Experience
2two2 Consulting
vCISO | AI Strategic Advisor | Advisory Board Member
September 2024 - Present (9 months)
United States
I specialize in delivering comprehensive tailored services that focus onestablishing robust cybersecurity programs, including virtual Chief InformationSecurity Officer (vCISO) roles, for startups and small to medium-sizedbusinesses (SMBs). My expertise lies in aligning these programs with pertinentindustry standards and frameworks, such as SOC 2, ISO/IEC 27001, the NISTCybersecurity Framework (CSF), HIPAA, CMMC, FedRAMP, GDPR, andCCPA to ensure effective Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) andPrivacy management.I provide strategic guidance and operational support for organizations buildingAI products and incorporating AI-enhanced products into their existingbusiness systems, aligning development and adoption with frameworks likethe NIST AI RMF and regulations such as the EU AI Act. A key aspect of myapproach involves establishing a formal Artificial Intelligence ManagementSystem (AIMS), as outlined in ISO/IEC 42001, to promote responsible andethical AI practices. This framework facilitates the development, deployment,and continuous improvement of AI systems, ensuring they align withorganizational objectives and comply with international standards. ￼By leveraging my extensive experience and knowledge of Security and AIgovernance frameworks, I assist organizations in navigating the complexitiesof security compliance, operations, and AI integration; fostering trust,transparency, and accountability in their Security and AI initiatives. My goal isto empower businesses to responsibly harness the potential of AI technologieswhile maintaining a strong commitment to security and compliance.Expert in: SOC 2, ISO 27001, ISO 42001, HIPAA, FedRAMP, CMMC, NIST800-53, NIST 800-171, NIST AI RMF, EU AI Act, GDPR, CCPA
Page 2 of 10
Advisory Board Member for: Cogent Infotech Corp, DeepXL, MindPodTechnologies, JSOC IT, Inc.
Primer.ai
4 years 9 months
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
January 2023 - August 2024 (1 year 8 months)
Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) - Primer Technologies and PrimerFederal• Strategic Leadership: Developed and managed a comprehensive informationsecurity roadmap, incorporating budgeting and key performance indicators, tosignificantly reduce cyber risk.• Goal Setting and Strategic Planning: Established immediate and long-termcybersecurity and risk management objectives; articulated strategies, definedsuccess metrics, and provided regular executive updates to ensure alignmentwith business goals.• Compliance Management: Implemented security controls in line with industrystandards, including ISO 27001, SOC 2 Type I & II, UK Cyber Essentials Plus,NIST 800-53, NIST 800-171, NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF), andFedRAMP High/IL-5.• AI Governance Preparation: Spearheaded initiatives to align organizationalpractices with emerging AI governance standards, such as ISO/IEC 42001 andthe NIST AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF), ensuring readiness forcompliance and fostering responsible AI development.• Team Leadership and Development: Mentored and managed the InformationSecurity team, promoting skill advancement and competency.• Infrastructure Protection: Ensured robust security measures for remoteworkforces and all technological environments, assets, systems, and data.• Incident Response Oversight: Led the Information Security and IncidentResponse teams, ensuring efficient management and resolution of securityincidents.
Page 3 of 10
• Security Education: Conducted regular company-wide security training andawareness programs.• Vulnerability Management: Drove the identification and resolution ofvulnerabilities in products and infrastructure.
Sr. Engineering Manager, Security
June 2022 - January 2023 (8 months)
San Francisco Bay Area
Staff Security and Compliance Engineer
January 2021 - July 2022 (1 year 7 months)
United States
Sr. Technical Program Manager - Cybersecurity
December 2019 - January 2021 (1 year 2 months)
United States
UC Berkeley Extension
Instructor - Cyber Security Boot Camp
March 2021 - March 2023 (2 years 1 month)
Berkeley, California, United States
• Taught cybersecurity fundamentals and offensive security, preparingstudents for CompTIA Security+ exams.
UC San Diego Extension
Instructor - Cyber Security Boot Camp
June 2020 - March 2021 (10 months)
Facebook
Technical Program Manager, Cyber Security
May 2018 - August 2019 (1 year 4 months)
Menlo Park, California
•Cross-Functional Leadership: Directed teams in developing scalable solutionsfor organizational challenges, including security frameworks, application riskassessments, large-scale technology refreshes, and automation tools.•Automated Security Posture Evaluation: Developed an automated system toassess the security posture of organizational software and monitor securityreviews enterprise-wide.
Page 4 of 10
•Product Management for Service Kiosks: Led the creation of a service kioskto enhance support in low-resourced areas, improving customer experienceand operational efficiency.• Menlo Park lead for the Facebook Veterans & Allies employee resourcegroup
Yahoo
Senior Program Manager, Paranoids
June 2017 - May 2018 (1 year)
Sunnyvale, California
•Strategic Security Leadership: Directed initiatives to enhance Yahoo!’scorporate and production security programs, focusing on GDPR compliance,Zero Trust architecture, Certificate Authority (CA) deployment, and boundarysecurity measures.•Program Management Office (PMO) Establishment: Founded a centralPMO to unify the merging Yahoo! and AOL Information Security teams,ensuring alignment of security initiatives with organizational and Verizon-drivenstrategies, as well as Objectives and Key Results (OKRs).
Booz Allen Hamilton
Senior Cyber Security Engineer
October 2016 - June 2017 (9 months)
Colorado Springs, Colorado
•Risk Assessment and RMF Package Development: Conductedcomprehensive risk assessments and developed Risk ManagementFramework (RMF) packages within the Enterprise Mission Assurance SupportService (eMASS) system, providing critical support to the network AuthorizingOfficial (AO) in making informed Authority to Operate (ATO) decisions.•Certification and Accreditation (C&A) Documentation: Led the developmentand submission of Certification and Accreditation (C&A) documentation,ensuring compliance with RMF requirements and adherence to DefenseInformation Systems Agency (DISA) Security Technical ImplementationGuides (STIGs).
Qualis Corporation
IT Project Manager
March 2016 - October 2016 (8 months)
Colorado Springs, Colorado
Page 5 of 10
•IT Project Management: Successfully managed IT projects exceeding $10million, focusing on implementing and enhancing cybersecurity measures forthe Missile Defense Agency (MDA). ￼•Proposal Coordination and Negotiation: Led the development and negotiationof enterprise IT solution proposals, including crafting Requests for Proposals(RFPs), Statements of Work (SOWs), and reviewing Work BreakdownStructures (WBS) and Basis of Estimates (BOE).
United States Air Force
21 years 3 months
Cyber Maintenance Policy Manager
February 2015 - March 2016 (1 year 2 months)
Headquarters, Air Force Space Command, Colorado Springs, Colorado
• Manager at HQ Air Force Space Command. Planned & executed cybermaintenance & sustainment policy / procedure development efforts for 7 cyberweapons systems valued at over $200M. • Subject matter expert for development of next-gen IT service managementsystem based on ITIL principles. Provided input concerning incident,vulnerability, configuration, and asset management disciplines.• Subject matter expert for AF vulnerability management guidance. Reviewedand provided input into standardized vulnerability management policies andprocedures across the AF enterprise network. • Air Force Space Command Quality Assurance lead; subject matter expertinspecting 117 Air Force Cyber Units on Quality Assurance disciplines, toinclude vulnerability management and reporting.
Director, Directory and Messaging Services
February 2013 - February 2015 (2 years 1 month)
Ramstein Air Base, Germany
• Managed a team of 50 military and contract technicians providing MS ActiveDirectory, MS Exchange and Blackberry Enterprise services for 610K AFInformation Network users. • Led the AF Network process standardization effort for US Air Forces Europe,coordinated integration with 21 subject matter experts and documentedcontrols/standardized network operations across 121 AF installations.• Led vulnerability management efforts and maintained compliancewith Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Security TechnicalImplementation Guides (STIGs) and AF IA Vulnerability Management (IAVM).
Page 6 of 10
Drafted and tracked Plan of Action & Milestones (POA&M) for critical systemswithin the Vulnerability Management System (VMS).• Revamped network vulnerability reporting procedures for the United StatesAir Forces in Europe theater of operations. Streamlined the remediationprocess for 852 network systems resulting in the lowest Category I vulnerabilityratio found across the Air Force Information Network (AFIN).
Unit Security Manager
February 2009 - February 2015 (6 years 1 month)
Ramstein Air Base, Germany
• Managed unit information/personnel/physical security program for $10Mfacility, initiated/maintained security clearance processing for 154 personnel.Certified by DoD on security principles and methodologies. • Directed $38K security system installation, coordinated install team, validatedfunctionality, penned operating procedures, and secured $10M in IT assets.• Managed network vulnerability scanner deployment for Ramstein Air Base.Scanners used to find and mitigate 27K threats, earning an "Excellent" ratingduring DISA compliance inspections.• Managed classified/security incident response team, maintained oversight ofdata sanitation procedures for three work centers.
Project Management Lead
February 2010 - February 2013 (3 years 1 month)
Ramstein Air Base, Germany
• Ran regional project management office (PMO) supporting 43K warfightersacross 142 installations, total IT portfolio managed valued at over $194M.Manager for 5 direct reports.• Oversaw the United States Air Forces in Europe’s Information Technologyprojects; coordinated stakeholder action, oversaw lifecycle, and de – conflictedresources for 610K users while maintaining $10B in Air Force InformationNetwork assets utilizing Planning, Programing, Budgeting, and Execution(PPBE) processes.• Project lead for US Air Forces Europe network migration to the singularAir Force Network, consisting of 31K devices and 41K users, valued at over$168M. • Project manager for SECRET-level Department of Defense EnterpriseEmail migration to the DISA cloud-based infrastructure, transitioning 10K useraccounts and ensuring 99.9% availability rate.• Led legacy domain shutdown project for US Air Forces in Europe,deactivating 5 enclaves consisting of 90 servers, saving the Air Force 25Kman–hours and $78K.
Page 7 of 10
• Financial manager responsible for coordinating $4 million dollar unit budgetand $3.3 million dollars in IT service contracts.
Manager, Storage & Virtualization Management
February 2009 - February 2010 (1 year 1 month)
Ramstein Air Base, Germany
• Led 12-person team securing and maintaining a $10M Storage Area Network(SAN) and VMware virtual architecture for the US Air Force Europe enterprisenetwork.• Coordinated a $120K virtual infrastructure install, configured SAN for USAir Forces Europe enterprise network migration to the singular AF Networkdomain.• Theater lead for data backup operations. Responsible for securing over 1.8petabytes of data over 12K backup cycles ensuring recoverability of mission-critical information.• Led virtualization effort for USAFE theater of operations. Transferred 59servers from physical to virtual hosts, complying with a federal mandate toreduce DoD data center footprints.
Unit Security Manager and Armorer
February 2006 - February 2009 (3 years 1 month)
Osan Air Base, South Korea
• Maintained information/personnel/physical security program for a 300-person organization. Duties included initiation and resubmittal for backgroundinvestigations, verification of security clearance adjudication, and need-to-know access.• Unit armorer and physical security lead. Provided arming functions to facilitysecurity detail, maintained perimeter security for $3M facility
Information Assurance Manager/ COMSEC Manager
February 2006 - February 2009 (3 years 1 month)
Osan Air Base, S. Korea
• Managed installation Information Assurance (IA) program for $8.5M networksupporting over 8K personnel at 18 locations across the Korean Peninsula.Provided IA program oversight and training for 120 unit-level InformationSystems Security Officers. Oversaw certification & accreditation of US ForcesKorea information systems in accordance with DIACAP. • Led 6-person Communications Security Office providing cryptologic keyingmaterial support to 7.5K customers across the Korean Peninsula. • Directed safeguarding, inventory, issuing, and destruction of 9.3K COMSEC/Cryptologic items valued at $8M for 61 accounts.
Page 8 of 10
• Provided training and guidance to 160 Information Systems Security Officerson formulating certification and accreditation packages for authority to operateon the AFIN. • Awarded Information Assurance Program Manager of the Year for 2007
CIES Administrator, Shift Lead
February 2003 - February 2006 (3 years 1 month)
Beale Air Force Base, California
• Led 5-person shift responsible for maintaining and securing Solaris-basedimagery exploitation systems supporting U2, Global Hawk, and Predator UAVmissions. Duties included systems administration, securing file systems, andmaintaining certification and accreditation of the Distributed Ground Systems(DGS) weapon system. • System administrator for the Imagery Support Server Environment (ISSE)Guard. Provided a DIA-certified secure interface for the direct transfer ofinformation between TS/SCI and Secret Collateral systems. • Responsible for securing and maintaining an 11TB target imagery databasesupporting the $1B DGS weapon system.
Team Lead, Internet Services
February 1999 - February 2003 (4 years 1 month)
Kadena Air Base, Okinawa, Japan
• Led 7-person team responsible for providing authentication and authorizationservices through the management of MS domain controllers, DNS, DHCP,and Exchange servers for the Kadena Base Area Network in support of 10Kusers.
Space Communications Systems Operator
January 1995 - February 1999 (4 years 2 months)
Schriever Air Force Base, Colorado
• Operated, coordinated, and maintained mission, ground, and Falcon Controlvoice and data resources supporting command and control for 110 satellitesystems across 7 DoD space programs.
Education
University of Denver
Master’s Degree, Information Systems Security · (2015 - 2017)
University of Maryland Global Campus
Master of Business Administration - MBA · (2018 - 2020)
Page 9 of 10
University of Maryland Global Campus
Bachelor's Degree, Computer Networks and Security · (2010 - 2014)
Community College of the Air Force
Information Systems Managment, Information Technology · (1995 - 2011)
Page 10 of 10
